# Overview

This proposal outlines a signing mechanism which allows an **applications** to request a **user**'s authentication or to ask a **user** to agree with an agreement, such as `Terms of Service` in a secure way. In the traditional web structure, the authentication breaks down into two micro steps:

- Identification: The ability to identify uniquely a user of a system or an application that is running in the system.
- Authentication: The ability to prove that a user or application is genuinely who that person or what that application claims to be.

In the decentralized blockchain world, the process is totally different. The user, as the private key holder, has a unique way to identify and authenticate themselves. In this senario, the term **Certificate** is more precise than **Credential**.


# Specifications

## Fields

* *purpose* - `string`: Only `identification` or `agreement `can be select now. It may expand in the future. When an application is requesting the user's signature, it needs to declare its purpose; the user needs to check the content before signing.

    | Purpose | Scenario |
    | --- | --- |
    | Identification | Request user to proof that he/she is the private key holder. In this scenario *payload* is not essential to the user. |
    | Agreement | Request user to agree with an agreement by using user's private key to sign, In this scenario *payload* contain the content such as Privacy policy and it is essential to the user |

* *payload* - `object`: The body of the payload

    * *type* - `string`: Specify the type of *content*, currently it only support `text` format, the `type` may be extended in the future.
    * *content* - `string`: A message for user which is determine by `type`. When the *type* is "text", it should be text format.

* *timestamp* - `number`: Timestamp,in `second`, consistent with UNIX timestamp and block timestamp. User should always caution of timestamp before the signing a certificate. It can refer to the signing time. Furthermore, If there is backend service in your application, the backend needs to check the timestamp and make sure its compliance with application/business rules.

* *domain* - `string`: The hostname of the application, it is a similar concept of `Party A` in a contract. For the security purpose, Backend service should always ensure the `domain` and hostname of the application are the same. It can prevent cross-domain replay attack.
* *signer* - `string`: User account which signed the certificate in the hexadecimal string, starts with '0x'.

* *signature* - `string`: Signature in hexadecimal string, starts with '0x'.

## Encoding

The concept of this proposal does not involve interaction with the blockchain（off-chain）. We don't need to consider the size or storage of the message which application request user to sign. Therefore, we choose a simple, flexible and universal JSON as the encoding format. We define the following rules to make the result deterministic : 

1. Key of JSON sorted by alphabet ascending;
2. Encoding should be compact: no indent, no wrap;
3. Use `UTF-8` as character encoding;
4. Format of *signer* and *signature* should be a hexadecimal string and starts with `0x`;

## Hashing

Hashing algorithm should use `blake2b 256bit` which is widely used in Vechain.

## Signing

Signing algorithm should use `secp256k1`. The message for signing is the whole payload without *signature**, encoded with the described method.

## Verification

1. Encode the message and calculate the hash;
2. Recovery the public key by the message hash and signature, then derive the account address;
3. Compare the recovered address and the address in the payload. Note: address is case-insensitive when you are comparing by hexadecimal 

## Certificate ID

The certificate include a valid *signature* field. To get the certificate ID, you have to encode the output by using the above encoding method and hash the encoded output.
