---
VIP: 230
Title: Token Recovery
Description: New and improved official documentation for support.vechain.org to guide VET holders with a safe and successful token recovery process.
Author: VetMaik (vetmaik@outlook.com)
Discussions: https://vechain.discourse.group/t/vip-tokenrecovery-new-and-better-documentation-to-help-our-community-in-recovering-their-lost-funds/42
Category:  Information
Status: Accepted
CreatedAt: 2023-08-30

---

## Overview
Crypto mass-adoption is on the horizon and therefor our documentation is need of an upgrade to support the masses. Already today, I'm contacted by a lot of people who have been scammed or made mistakes while withdrawing their vechain tokens from a CEX or transferring them between wallets. The official Vechain documentation on the support website needs additional articles about how you can recover your funds when you've made a mistake. Another reason why we need good support resources is because it will reduce the amount of people falling for scams and traps when asking for support.
  
## Motivation
As a community admin, I'm helping out VET holders on a daily basis. This varies from explaining about how the vechain wallets work to aiding help in recovering their funds. I'm known for a trusted helper in our community, but I will not always be available to help. That's why I want official documentation on recover topics so everyone can be supported with token recovery through our official resources instead of the risk of falling for scams on X, Discord, Reddit, and Telegram. I'm also willing to write and add these documentation myself as I'm very experiences in these topics.

## Rationale
We need to create easy-to-understand guides and/or tutorials on support.vechain.com to aid our holders in recovering their lost VET.
  
## Specification
The different guides would written as articles in the CMS system that support.vechain.org is using for their support.
Additionally, I would like to request support for VET tokenswap for chains that have a bridged version of vechain, like BSC and Cronos.
This way - users who withdrew their vechain on the wrong network, can easily swap them for the official variant.
The official vechain token bridge can be found here: https://bridge.vechain.best/#swap

It would also be great if we could add custom derivation path support to VeWorld. Recently this has been added to Sync2. It would be even better to use VeWorld in the guides.

### Articles
[Sent VET on the VechainThor network to BSC Address](/assets/vip-230/articles/Sent%20VET%20on%20the%20VechainThor%20network%20to%20BSC%20Address.md)  
[Sent VET on the VechainThor network to Ethereum Address](/assets/vip-230/articles/Sent%20VET%20ont%20he%20VechainThorn%20etwork%20to%20EthereumA%20ddress.md)

## Test Cases
  
## Reference Implementation
For reference, please have a quick look at https://myvechain.com where I created similar guides to help out our community members.
  
## Security Considerations
This VIP is increasing the security for our holders by providing them with official documentation on topics that are used for scamming people.

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](./LICENSE.md).
